= Autocompleter[.Local]

When looking for a possibility to assist website visitors while typing phrases into an input text field, many developer will just use the
Autocompleter controls of script.aculo.us. Those controls give you - on the one hand - the chance to load hints from a remote server during
the input process. On the other hand, you can just preload all data and pass them into the so called <i>Autocompleter.Local</i>.
Doing so will save a lot of ajax requests.

== Problems

The local version of Autocompleter is nice and ok for simple hints and tips. But you will reach a point on which you just want to have an
individual output or propose some data which equals, so you can't differ between those values.

= Autocompleter.Local.MultiContent

With this extension of the script.aculo.us Autocompleter.Local you are able to do the following:

* Connect autocompletion entries with data sets (js hashes)
* Differ multiple hints with the same output value
* Generate hints with a leading image
* Let the autocompleter handle your data
* Hook into the selection process

== Basic usage

The constructor expects the normal Autocompleter.Local parameters. Instead of passing an array of strings, you are allowed to pass an array of hashes.
In the options hash you have to define an attribute of the hash, which should be displayed when typing.

=== Example

First: Let's define some data:
  
  var data = [
    {name: "Max", age: 22},
    {name: "Jane", age: 30},
    {name: "John", age: 45}
  ];

To generate the autocompleter just do the following:

  var autocompleter = new Autocompleter.Local.MultiContent(
    "myTextField",
    "myHintsDiv",
    data,
    { value: "name" }
  );
  
The first parameter is the id of the input text field. The second one is a div, which will contain the hints while typing.
The third one is the data array. The fourth are options. The options will be passed to the normal Autocompleter.Local so that
you can define full text search and stuff like that. Currently not really an option but an obligatory information is the <i>value</i>.
Set it to the attribute of the hash, which you like to be displayed. This will probably change in future versions.

== Advanced usage

There are multiple options that can be passed to the constructor. Each one is described in the following:

=== identifier

The identifier specifies the attribute, which is able to identify a data set, when the autocompleter generates hints with the same output.
If you don't specify the identifier in the constructor's options hash, the Autocompleter will look through the passed data sets and determine
weather there is an <i>id</i> attribute or not. If so, it will automatically set this attribute as identifier. If you have another attribute
which is able to identify a data set, you can just specify it in the options hash:

  var data = [ {name: "Max", age: 22, filename: "my_nice_unique_filename.doc"}, ... ];
  var autocompleter = new Autocompleter.Local.MultiContent(
    "myTextField", "myHintsDiv", data,
    {
      value: "name",
      identifier: "filename" // this will make the autocompleter look for the unique filenames
    }
  );

=== generateIDs

If you want to pass data sets with non unique output and you don't have ids, you can just let the autocompleter generate them.
To do so just add the <i>generateIDs</i> option:

  var autocompleter = new Autocompleter.Local.MultiContent(
    "myTextField", "myHintsDiv", data,
    {
      value: "name",
      generateIDs: true // set this to true in order to autogenerate the ids
    }
  );
  
Calling this constructor will transform our data the following way:

  // before the constructor call
  [ {name: "Max", age: 22}, {name: "Jane", age: 30}, {name: "John", age: 45} ]
  
  // after the constructor call
  [ {name: "Max", age: 22, id: 0}, {name: "Jane", age: 30, id: 1}, {name: "John", age: 45, id: 2} ]
  
=== image

Besides plain text you can also add an image to the rendered output. Just add an attribute to your data sets with an absolute or a relative path to an image
and specify the image option:

  var data = [{name: "Bus", img: "img/bus_64.png"}, ... ]
  var autocompleter = new Autocompleter.Local.MultiContent(
    "myTextField", "myHintsDiv", data,
    {
      value: "name",
      image: "img" // wil render an image to the hint
    }
  );
  
=== onSelect

If you want to hook into the selection process you can specify the onSelect option in the constructor's options hash. The value of onSelect should be a function.
The function gets fired each time an user selects one of the hints. The first parameter of the function is the selected data set. As an example you could generate a preview of the selected value.

  var autocompleter = new Autocompleter.Local.MultiContent(
    "myTextField", "myHintsDiv", data,
    {
      value: "name",
      onSelect: function(dataSet) {
        // work with the dataSet ...
      }
    }
  );